---
layout: post
title:  "So Long Google, and Thanks for All the Fish"
date:   2022-09-16 15:39:00 +0200
description: Google
---

# Thx, Google and YouTube. I got what I paid for ... 

I joined Gmail at the end of 2005. It was not invite-only anymore but still restricted in some countries. It was a novel service compared to my previous one, freemail.hu ... if you live in Hungary, you know ... 
Anyway, I am still using Gmail as my primary email after 17 years, and I still have not run out of storage. Even though I am paying money for an encrypted email service, searching in that one is pretty bulky, so I only use that one for online shopping, healthcare, and other sensitive topics where I don't want Google to know everything. 
I uploaded my first hacking-related [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lsMK84QOb2M) in 2012. 
I wrote [my first blog post](https://jumpespjump.blogspot.com/2013/11/secure-ipv6-deployment-checklist-think.html) on Blogger/Blogspot in 2013, when my friend invited me to write some new hacking-related content on his blog. 
As you can see, I was a happy Google user ... until I was not. 

On February 27, 2021, I got an email from "YouTube team" that my video with the title "IoT hack - IP camera via cloud password brute-force" was removed because it violated the ["Harmful or dangerous content policies"](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2801964?hl=en). 
I understand that via keyword-search or quickly looking at the video it got flagged. I disagree with removing the video, as it was about warning of the dangers and did not provide any step-by-step guide or link to hacking codes. But I understand that mistakes happen. What made things worse is that they deleted the video, and I could not access it via YouTube Studio. This is a terrible practice. Please change it. 

I felt that appealing would not resolve the issue, so I did the opposite. I emailed them that, "in this case, they should delete all of my videos". Right after clicking on the send button, I got an instant reply. They "carefully" checked my appeal but will not change their mind. Clearly they did not check the mail.
I also reached out for help on Twitter, and a [nice hacker guy](https://twitter.com/gynvael/status/1365957884245401602) working for Google helped me , but unfortunately, the issue was not resolved. 
I moved on. I still do not know what will be the best place to host my educational hacking videos. 

On August 21, 2022, I got a mail from the Blogger team. They have unpublished [one of my posts](https://web.archive.org/web/20210517170248/https://jumpespjump.blogspot.com/2020/09/my-whcd-exam-experience.html) because it [violated their guideline](https://blogger.com/go/contentpolicy), especially the "Malware and Viruses policy"
Honestly, I don't know how this blog post could have violated it, as this describes how I passed a blue team-related exam. Yes, the post discussed malware, but not a single piece of code or anything suspicious was published in the blog post. As that would have spoiled the fun ... 
The good news is that they did not delete the post, at least.

#  The conclusion? 
I think I can't complain as I was "only" paying with my personal data for Google, so I got what one could expect ... But I believe it is time to migrate from Google totally if you want to publish any educational-related hacking material. For the time being, maybe it is time that I start to flag all of their [Project Zero](https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/) blog posts, as they clearly violate their guidelines ... 
And let's hope Microsoft will not delete the hacking-related blog posts on GitHub pages.

